W-23139256 Update policies-included-a2a-pii-detector.adoc (#1100)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-mcp-pii-detector.adoc

| Action | No | Action to take when PII is detected. Supported values are *Reject*, *Log*, and *Log and mask*. Default is *Log*.
|===

== How This Policy Works

The MCP PII Detector policy is symmetric: it scans both request and response sides of MCP JSON-RPC traffic for PII. It recursively inspects all string values in both `params.*` (for requests) and `result.*` (for responses).

The policy scans:

* *JSON-RPC requests*: All string values under `params.*` from client to server
* *JSON-RPC responses*: All string values under `result.*` from server to client, including nested objects and arrays
* *Elicitation responses*: JSON-RPC responses sent from client back to server (MCP elicitation pattern)
* *SSE streams*: Each `data:` payload in Server-Sent Events (MCP Streamable HTTP transport)

[%header,cols="1,2,2,2"]
|===
|Traffic Type
|Reject
|Log
|Log and Mask

|Request processing
|Blocks the request with HTTP 403 error response. The upstream server never receives the request.
|Forwards the request and logs findings with actual PII values.
|Forwards the request and logs findings with masked values.

|Response processing (application/json)

> |Blocks the response with HTTP 403 error response. The client does not receive the original response containing PII.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Blocks the response with HTTP 403 error response. The client doesn't receive the original response containing PII.
```

|Credit Card
|Credit card numbers for Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover, with or without separators. Examples: `4111-1111-1111-1111`, `4111 1111 1111 1111`, `4111111111111111`, `4111.1111.1111.1111`, `5500-0000-0000-0004`, `3782-822463-10005`, `6011-0000-0000-0004`.

|Phone Number
|Phone numbers in common domestic and international formats based on ITU E.164 country codes. Examples include US numbers like `(555) 123-4567`, `555-123-4567`, `+1-555-123-4567`, and international numbers like `+91 98765 43210`, `+44 20 7946 0958`, `+49 30 12345678`.
|===

== Example Request and Logging

This example shows a request containing PII and the corresponding log output for different action configurations:

[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "tools/call",
  "id": 1,
  "params": {
    "name": "send_email",
    "arguments": {
      "to": "john.doe@example.com",
      "message": "Contact info: phone is (555) 123-4567, SSN is 123-45-6789"
    }
  }
}
----

[tabs]
====
Log::
+
--

> When the action is set to *Log*, the policy logs detected PII with the actual values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the action is set to *Log*, the policy logs detect PII with the actual values:
```

[source,text]
----
[accessLog] PII detected in request (log only): [{"pii_type": "Email", "value": "john.doe@example.com", "start": 0, "end": 20}, {"pii_type": "Phone", "value": "(555) 123-4567", "start": 0, "end": 14}, {"pii_type": "SSN", "value": "123-45-6789", "start": 0, "end": 11}]
----
--

Log and Mask::
+
--

> When the action is set to *Log and mask*, the policy logs detected PII with masked values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the action is set to *Log and mask*, the policy logs detect PII with masked values:
```

      }
    ]
  }
}
----

Sanitized response forwarded to server:
[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 1,
  "result": {
    "action": "decline",
    "reason": "Elicitation response declined due to detected PII"
  }
}
----

=== Custom Pattern Example

This example shows detection of a custom AWS Access Key pattern in a request:

[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "tools/call",
  "id": 1,
  "params": {
    "name": "deploy",
    "arguments": {
      "key": "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
    }
  }
}
----

With a custom pattern configured (`name: AWS Access Key`, `pattern: AKIA[0-9A-Z]{16}`), the policy logs:

[source,text]
----
[accessLog] PII detected in request (log only): [{"pii_type": "AWS Access Key", "value": "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE", "start": 0, "end": 20}]
----

== Server-Sent Events (SSE) Considerations

When the MCP server uses Server-Sent Events (text/event-stream) for streaming responses, the policy buffers and processes the entire stream:

* *Log*: The stream is forwarded unchanged with raw PII values logged.
* *Log and mask*: Each event's result strings are rewritten with masked values while preserving SSE framing (event names, IDs, comments).

> * *Reject*: The entire stream is replaced with a single JSON-RPC error envelope and the Content-Type changes to application/json with HTTP 403 status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Reject*: The entire stream is replaced with a single JSON-RPC error envelope, and the Content-Type changes to application/json with HTTP 403 status.
```

> IMPORTANT: SSE buffering is suitable for short-lived tool-call responses but may not be appropriate for long-lived server-pushed streams. For notification streams or progress updates, use the *Log* action to avoid buffering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: SSE buffering is suitable for short-lived tool-call responses but might not be appropriate for long-lived server-pushed streams. For notification streams or progress updates, use the *Log* action to avoid buffering.
```

> NOTE: When *Reject* is applied to an SSE stream, the response Content-Type changes from text/event-stream to application/json. Clients that strictly require SSE formatting may need to handle this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When *Reject* is applied to an SSE stream, the response Content-Type changes from text/event-stream to application/json. Clients that strictly require SSE formatting might need to handle this change.
```

== Compliance and Data Flow

> The following table shows where raw PII values may appear based on the configured action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table shows where raw PII values appear based on the configured action:
```
